# 2025-06-30 Weekly Meeting

See [README](README.md) for explanations on how to read these minutes

## Last week's plan

* @notunrandom:
  * âœ… Start coding on anti-cli (pair up or get assigned an issue)
  * ðŸ”´ Create handbook and improve READMEâ€™s inspired by what I need(ed)
  * âœ… Prepare short Radicle presentation for 2nd July
  * âœ… Continue Academy
* @abailly:
  * âœ… draft slide for 2nd July
  * âœ… focus on Amaru demo for Friday
  * ðŸ”´ test MPFS for storing documents on IPFS
* @anviking:
  * âœ… anti cli
  * ðŸ”´ prepare for demo
  * ðŸŸ  look at log property failing because of log rotation
* @paweljakubas:
  * âœ… anti cli
  * ðŸŸ  prepare for demo
* @paolino:
  * âœ… MPFS w/ antithesis agent
  * âœ… write some doc/website as part of demo

## Check

* @notunrandom
  * started work on some issue, created GH repos for testing interaction w/ CLI and MPFS
  * provide access to the team
* @paolino
  * update token not working in `anti cli`
  * showign cool use of GADTs to constrain transitions in anti cli
* @paweljakubas
* @abailly
* @anviking
  * signing done

## Act

* reviewing the demo slides
  * share whole screen, easier to switch b/w apps
  * use a larger pointer!

## Plan

* @everyone: Focus on demo preparation
