# Glossary

Glossary of terms used in various Cardano Foundation and HAL projects.

The glossary was initially populated from the Cardano Academy trainings and
Wikipedia.

## C

Cypherpunk
: One who advocates the widespread use of cryptography and privacy-enhancing
technologies as a means to social and political change.

## D

Decentralized identifier
: A decentralized identifier (DID) is a type of globally unique identifier that
enables an entity to be identified in a manner that is verifiable, persistent
(as long as the DID controller desires), and does not require the use of a
centralized registry.

DID
: cf. Decentralized identifier

Domain-specific language
: A domain-specific language (DSL) is a language specific to a particular
application domain like finance or law (as opposed to a general-purpose
language, which can be used across a wide range of domains).

DSL
: cf. Domain-specific language

## F

Fiat money
: Fiat money is a type of government-issued currency, authorized by government
regulation to be legal tender. Typically, fiat currency is not backed by a
precious metal, such as gold or silver, nor by any other tangible asset or
commodity.

Fungibility:
: In economics and law, fungibility is the property of something whose
individual units are considered fundamentally interchangeable with each other.
For example, the fungibility of money means that a \$100 bill (note) is
considered entirely equivalent to another \$100 bill.
: In blockchains, fungibility is about the relationship between two assets.
Tokens are fungible with each other if they are interchangeable. Non-fungible
assets are not interchangeable with each other. For example, two distinct
paintings, or two on-chain tokens representing the two real-world paintings. If
there are no other assets a token is fungible with, the token is deemed to be
unique (non-fungible). It is common for artists, musicians and authors to
release limited-edition NFT collections. 

## G

Game theory
: Game theory is a branch of mathematics concerned with the analysis of
strategies for dealing with competitive situations where the outcome of a
participant's choice of action depends critically on the actions of other
participants.

## I

Immutability
: Immutability is a blockchain ledgerâ€™s ability to remain unchanged and
permanent.

## L

Layer-1
: Layer-1 blockchain refers to the base protocol of a blockchain network that
operates independently and can process and finalize cryptocurrency transactions
without relying on another blockchain. Bitcoin was the first layer-1
blockchain, followed by Ethereum.

Layer-2
: A layer-2 solution sits on top of a layer-1 blockchain (e.g. Bitcoin,
Ethererum or Cardano). Layer-2 protocols use the 'parent' layer-1 blockchain
for network and security infrastructure. Layer-2's are typically more flexible
in their ability to scale transaction processing. There are generally three
types of layer-2 solutions: state channels, ZK rollups and optimistic rollups

## M

Machine code
: In computer programming, machine code is the binary representation of a
computer program that is actually read and interpreted by the computer. A
program in machine code consists of a sequence of machine instructions
(possibly interspersed with data) used to control a computer's central
processing unit (CPU). 
